Woodworking and workshop tools
------------------------------

**File: `lathe_drum_sander_v1.scad`**

Print two of these and they exactly fit the VicMarc 128mm jaws; then a 533mm
long, 75cm high sanding belt for a standard belt sander will fit exactly
around the outside.  This then forms a simple drum sander for the lathe.  By
slightly expanding the jaws it holds the belt in place and the drum on the
jaws.  The overlap is in a V profile so there's no obvious join indent, and
the pieces between the outer and inner are angled so as to minimise infill,
obviate support material, and provide a mild air pressure to draw dust away
from the user.

The easiest way to assemble it is to put both pieces inside the loop of the
sanding belt first, then move them around until the ends meet and interlock.
Then pick it up and put the chuck in from the other side - the 'vanes' of the
fan are angled in on the 'outside' away from the chuck.  The part has been
designed to allow customisation for other belt and chuck sizes.

**File: `masonry_drill_rack_v1.0.scad`**

A basic block to store the masonry drills I have.

**File: `lathe_extractor_fan_v1.0.scad`**

An idea for a fan that sits on the head of the VL240.  The enclosure uses
magnets to grip onto the head stock, and the blade assembly sits on the drive
shaft.  The blades are radial so they work in either direction, although at
this point the outlet probably only works best for forward.

**File: `oscillating_sander_vacuum_adapter.scad`**

An adapter that fits on the side of the AEG oscillating power sander and
directly connects to a vacuum hose for a workshop vacuum cleaner.

**File: `pipe_clip.scad`**

A clip that a pipe or cylindrical object can be pushed onto to hold it in
place, and a two-part pipe clamp for when you really need to hold onto a
pipe.

**File: `Plastic shredder inlet and outlet.scad`**

Fittings to attach to the [Sustainable Design Studios Shredder Mini
v2](https://bazar.preciousplastic.com/machines/shredder/shredder-kits/shredder-mini-handcranked-shredder/)
to provide an inlet and some different forms of support for the shredder to
sit on a container.

**File: `trend_airshield_battery_pack.scad`**

Still early experiments on making a replacement for the Trend AirShield Pro
battery.  The idea is to build in a LiPo pouch cell, a USB charger board, and
possibly a regulated 3.6V output board.

**File: `vicmarc_chuck_gauge_v1.scad`**

Simple pieces that show the inside and outside dimensions of Vicmarc lathe
chuck jaws, at their minimum and maximum extend (i.e. narrowest and widest).
Includes writing the dimensions and the chuck 'number'.

